Welcome back!
Let's have a look at how to implement
JSON based microservices
with CDI in JAX-RS
But first, let's have a look at the
components that play a part in this.
Quarkus does take advantage of
the MicroProfile specification
and developers can build web services,
which obviously are the foundation
of microservice based architectures.
And the components that we need
to actually implement,
to start implementing
microservices with Quarkus
or Quarkus Dependency Injection,
which is comparable to CDI, Contexts and
Dependency Injection specification,
we will see in what ways it differs
and how it's functionally slightly
inferior to the fully blown
CDI specification with
the good reason to. JAX-RS
which is Jakarta RESTful web services,
and the JSON processing
library, the JSON-P library.
Using all these 3 components,
you can build RESTful web services in
a straightforward and
very declarative manner.
But before we go on,
let's review the Dependency
Injection specifications.
A small revolution happened
when Enterprise Java 6
introduced the CDI
specification in 2009.
The Dependency Injection
design pattern
to create loosely based application
components existed before,
but it was not standardized
and Enterprise Java did not
really have a good way of implementing it.
So what happened with CDI is that it
immediately simplified code down
to ridiculous level of simplicity.
It produce the boilerplate
code by orders of
magnitude because it is an inversion of
control system where the
developer is no longer
responsible to create an instance
of a class that they want to use.
It becomes the container
that becomes responsible.
It is now the container that
becomes responsible for that.
And all we need to do it is give it some
guidelines on what exactly we need.
So bye-bye all the long checks and
boilerplate code hidden somewhere,
which is simply there only to create
an instance of an object we needed.
All of that is taken care
of by the container.
However, there are a couple
of very important concepts
in CDI that allow the container to,
that is the runtime,
the execution container, plain speak for
that would be the application server.
Although technically there is
a subunit of the application
server called the CDI container,
which takes care of that.
Now this container must be
able to create classes,
to create instances of classes or
objects that suit your current needs.
And it needs some pretty simple
instructions on how to do this.
Namely, it needs to know what
the lifecycle context of the object
that is about to create has to be.
Is it a request scoped
object that they
can throw away immediately afterwards?
Is it an object that has to be around
for the duration of the application?
Perhaps because it contains
some important global state that
the application needs to refer to,
or is it just something that the
user is going to use for awhile?
And then we can remove it because
let's say the session has ended
or even a smaller unit which CDI
introduced called the conversation,
which is something between
a request in the session,
maybe it's even that scope.
So for that purpose, CDI provide
some lifecycle annotations,
but also implements event-driven
notification model.
So it has support for events and
interceptors of those events.
It also enables us to develop
decorators for components that
are injected into our classes.
So if an existing implementation
only does about 80 percent
of what we needed to do,
but we needed to do something
in addition to that,
just a little bit more before,
after its work has started or completed,
we can create a decorator for a specific
CDI component and declare it as such,
just simply using an annotation,
and the CDI system
will use that instead of the original one
because it's then up to us
to actually invoke the code.
So it's decorators and
interceptors, are both
basically solutions to a similar problem.
And most importantly, all of
this is done at runtime. So,
at compilation time, you can easily
have stub implementations or
even just interfaces without
actual functionality that you're going
to use later in your application,
which again as you can,
you can probably imagine immensely
simplifies the development.
Now,
CDI is all around managed beans, right?
If the CDI container is
going to create an object,
it needs to manage its life cycle as well.
So it needs to create it,
but also it needs to mark it
for garbage collection.
Bean specifics,
it's essentially almost any kind of
Java bean that can be managed by CDI.
There is no need for the bean itself
to be aware of the lifecycle.
There's no need
for it to worry about,
you know, when it's going to be created,
what's going to happen
when it's destroyed?
How it connects to other
objects and so on.
A bean that is managed by
CDI is created whenever a piece
of code needs it somewhere.
And it's created in
accordance with the scope
annotation either on that managed bean
or which is another important concept,
a scope annotation on the injection point.
Now, the independence of managing
the lifecycle of beans either,
for example, being happy with
the default lifecycle if we don't
care or being able to fine tune it,
control it at the injection point,
actually makes code
maintenance a lot easier.
Now, the CDI framework,
just as many modern frameworks,
is annotation driven.
And one of the most
important annotations in
any CDI application,
are scope annotations.
So we have @ApplicationScoped beans,
@SessionScoped, @ConversationScoped,
and @RequestScoped beans.
Annotating a class with one
of these scope annotations
immediately tells to
the CDI container what,
how long this bean is going to be around?
If it's @ApplicationScoped,
it's just going to remain around
until the application shuts down.
If it's @SessionScoped,
then it's going to remain
until the session ends.
The current contexts session,
of course, the session
in which it was created.
If a scope annotation is
not provided by CDI bean,
then it is assumed to be a @Dependent bean,
which basically means that its scope
depends on the scope of the client.
So on the scope of the application
class where that bean is injected.
If we inject a @Dependent bean
into an Application Scoped class,
it becomes an @ApplicationScoped Bean.
If we inject a @Dependent bean
into a request scope class,
then it's a @RequestScoped bean and it will be
terminated after the request completes.
We have other annotations
such as interceptor,
decorator, producers, and so on.
These are all advanced CDI concepts
that you could probably do
well if you need a refreshment
by taking a look at the AD183
class, the training course,
which is also available
from your learning subscription,
which is an introductory course
into Enterprise Java development.
It has a really nice section on CDI.
Now, looking at the 3 scopes,
the 3 most important scopes,
as I've already mentioned,
the application scope means
that the object that is
created by the CDI container will live
throughout the life of the application.
It will be shared to all the method calls
that mentioned that bean.
So unless of course,
the scope controls of
the injection point are completely
different and more specific,
an @ApplicationScoped bean, once
an instance of it is created,
can be accessed from anywhere
in the application by
simply defining injection
points and referring to it.
@SessionScoped bean is created when it's
first used in the session contexts.
So if you're working with, let's say,
some sort of a session related
web application component,
then any injection point that
refers to this instance of
a class that we're about to create will
have been accessing the same
instance of the CDI bean,
as long as it's in the
same session context.
So you probably know that in a session
there are multiple concurrent contexts,
each depending to one user.
So it's assumed.
And in each of those contexts the
state is generally different.
Which means that if we have, for example,
login bean that stores
the users preferences,
for example, it needs to be
a different instance of a
login been in 1 session,
then in another session,
because those are not
2 of the same users,
they are different users and they
obviously have different preferences.
If the session is destroyed
or it times out,
any such @SessionScoped bean that is
associated with it is also destroyed,
marked for garbage collection
and essentially lost.
And @RequestScoped beans are tied
to each individual request and
they're created by the CDI container
when the service invocation starts,
when the request is fulfilled,
and those @RequestScoped
beans are destroyed.
You may have noticed that we haven't
mentioned @ConversationScoped at all here.
This is because in Quarkus
DI @ConversationScoped,
decorators, extensions, specialization,
pasteurization and so on,
they are not supported.
Additionally, bean manager, if you use it,
only has a subset of the
methods such as getBeans,
createCreationalContext, getReference,
getInjectableReference,
resolve, getfireEvent, getEvent and so on.
So it's not a fully blown
implementation of the interface.
And what's more important,
the dependency injection in Quarkus
ignores the content of the
descriptor called the beans.xml.
You may remember that
beans.xml had to be
present even if it was
just an empty file to
turn on CDI in Java EE
application in Quarkus DI.
This is not necessary.
Actually if the file is there,
it's completely ignored because we do
not do injection calculations at runtime.
Remember, Quarkus is all about
predicting what's going to happen.
So it needs to have everything related to
injection available at compilation time.
So one of the consequences
of ignoring beans.
xml file is that we cannot
configure interceptors,
decorators, alternatives, and so on,
by using the beans.xml file.
We would have to use,
for example, qualifier annotations.
If we have multiple available
implementations of the same interface,
then qualifiers are what you'd
have to use in Quarkus DI.
You'll find quite a number of differences
actually between Quarkus in Enterprise
Java throughout this course,
including the coding style,
some implementations
of the specifications.
The reasons are all because
of a different approach
that Quarkus takes at compilation.
It needs to be able to
build the minimal binary
and that's why it cannot allow
for things like dynamic
loading, reflection at runtime,
and all sorts of other magic that
was possible if you relied on
the fact that your application is
living in a giant application server,
which can actually dynamically
load libraries
which you can deploy and undeploy
things to and from and so on,
with Quarkus, that no longer happens.
We are cloud native.
We build container images that have
all the dependencies bundled
in them at build time.
So a lot of the additional
functionality that
Quarkus does not have is simply
irrelevant in this context.
Now, back to CDI or Quarkus DI
I should say, Quarkus discovers beans
using a simplified bean discovery.
And that means that DI
beans have to be annotated.
It constructs the bean archive
doing the following operations.
First it looks at application classes.
Then it looks at dependencies of
your application that have
beans.xml descriptor,
whereas the contents are ignored.
Then it looks for any dependencies
that have a Jandex index.
And then it has a look at any additional
classes that are referenced by
quarkus.index-dependency in the
Quarkus's application.properties file.
Finally, it looks for any classes
included in Quarkus integration code.
Now, this is done at
compilation time, as mentioned.
Because at compilation time,
all of these classes
have to be examined for
their respective cascaded
injection points and so on.
Even though typically field membership
in Java is recommended to be private.
All right! So field visibility
in members of a class is
supposed to be private.
However, with Quarkus DI, package-
private modifiers are preferred
because eventually we might want
to switch to Quarkus Native.
And that has even stricter requirements
on being able to trace
code execution paths
and predict which accesses to class
members are going to be made and so on.
So Quarkus generally will not give you
headaches if you declared
private members in your classes,
until you go from Java
execution mode to native mode.
In that case, you're going to need a little
bit of refactoring to support that.
We do have a chapter on native execution.
Later on, we're going to see a
couple of things that we need
to do about our applications
in that context.
So to achieve compatibility
with Quarkus Native,
as I said, we're going to come back to
a practical exercise and
some examples of this.
But generally, you should not
include an explicit access modifier.
In fields, constructors, initializers,
observe and producer methods,
injection fields, that's very
important, disposers and interceptors.
So many of those are CDI related concepts.
So again, have a look at
AD183 training course,
if you're not quite sure what
is the functionality of those.
Another thing, bean classes that
do not define their scope explicitly
using annotations are ignored.
Now you may remember that in CDI,
unannotated classes implicitly
get a @Dependent scope. In Quarkus
DI they do not,
so however, if a class
has producer methods,
if a class has producer fields,
if it has observer methods,
then regardless of the lack of
annotations on the class itself,
Quarkus DI does recognize
it as a CDI bean because it
obviously perform some
CDI related functions.
If it, if there's a
producer method in a class,
then that class does not really have
to have a scope quantitation because
we know immediately it's going to be
used by some sort of an injection point.
Another exception is when
business method is annotated with
the @Scheduled annotation.
Again, the class is immediately
recognized and added to the list
of Dependency Injection managed beans.
An example bean declaration of
a class that will be managed by
Quarkus DI is this
example bean in our books,
which has an ApplicationScoped
class-level annotation.
It just has 1 string and
1 method that prints out high, that doesn't even use that string,
nevermind the content of the class
really.
What's important is that
the ExampleBean has
an annotation which is ApplicationScoped.
You can then use this bean in
an injection point like this.
So the injection point called
someProperty in some resource class
at runtime will have an instance of the
example bean injected into the field,
which means that you can use it in
the useBean method without
initializing it first,
which would have been a compile-time
error in non CDI applications,
but with CDI, we know that there's always
the Dependency Injection framework to
assist us with creating instances.
Quarkus Dependency Injection
is implemented by Quarkus Arc.
It's controlled by entries starting
with quarkus.arc prefix
in the application.properties
but we'll get back to configuring
our applications later.
It's just that not for you to make,
if you want to fine tune
quarkus.arc related behavior.
Moving from CDI to JAX-RS. JAX-RS
used to be known as the Java
API for RESTful Web Services,
but is now known as Jakarta
RESTful Web Services.
It is a specification that provides
support for creating web services that
implement what is known as
Representational State Transfer
or REST architectural pattern.
The JAX-RS API is
primarily annotation driven,
very easy to use and
facilitates the development of
web service endpoints and clients in Java by
simplifying the development and reducing
much of the boilerplate code that is,
whatever the way it's been
required to build a web service.
Starting with version 1.1
JAX-RS was actually included in
the Enterprise Java
specification version 6,
making it the de facto
and industry standard.
So both de facto and
unofficial industry-standard for
building Java-based REST services.
Couple of core annotations that
JAX-RS specification defines for
building REST service classes.
All of them can be found in javax.ws.rs
package to import into your classes
and of course some subpackages.
Probably most important one is the
@Path annotation because it defines
the relative end point at which the
web service is going to be available.
So this can be class-level annotation or
it can be a method level annotation.
But if you use both the class and
the method level annotations,
they are concatenated
together so as to produce
longer endpoints, so that you
can easily differentiate
by providing sub end points on your methods.
Whereas the entire class
can be placed into
the endpoint hierarchy by annotating
it with the path annotation as well.
Each method that implements some
REST functionality would then
have one of the HTTP methods
and method annotations.
On top of it is what?
It just defines what kind
of an HTTP method which is
passed in a request to the
corresponding endpoint will trigger
this piece of code. And then
ultimately produces and
consumes or 2 annotations
that explain to the web container
whatever is being used,
which kind of content
type the method will produce
for the producer's annotation,
or which kind of
content type it expects to
consume if it needs some
sort of a request body,
sent to the method in order to process it.
Any valid parameter to the @Produces
and @Consumes annotations is one of
the fields in the javax.ws.rs.core.MediaType class.
Rest methods of course,
can take parameters,
and the way parameters are passed into
your methods is actually managed by
the JAX-RS specification as well.
If you have a parameter in your path,
such as for example in this URL,
www.example.com/currencies/USD.
If the USD was the parameter,
then path parameter can actually inject
this parameter if we define
the path with the specific
place holder. For this example,
the path value would be,
let's say we have a class that is annotated
with the path auth slash currencies
and then we have a method that
is annotated with a path,
which is the parameter itself.
Of course, we would say
something like curr
and then in the path parameter,
we can specify that the curr
value should be injected into
the methods parameter field.
So this is a methods parameter annotation
that literally takes whatever is
passed as part of the URL and inject
it into the method parameter.
Query parameters work
similarly to path parameters,
except that they referred to named
parameters appended at the end of the URL.
So with this example/rest
question mark name equals
Test query parameter,
but simply state that
name parameters should
be injected into the method
parameter as it was passed.
And then the method parameter
would contain the string test.
Header parameters can extract values from
HTTP request headers and inject
them into method parameters.
Form parameters can take
values from form field,
no matter where it is URL
encoded or whatever type of validation
you've been coding for a form that is,
and the context is
a special annotation that injects the
entire context of the HttpServletRequest
that triggered
this particular action
of processing into a method
parameter. Depending on its type,
it can also be the security contexts,
not just the HttpServletRequest.
So it's function is actually
dependent on the declared
type of the method parameter.
So if your method parameter is
specifying that it's of
type HttpServletRequest than
that is what you're going to get.
Otherwise, if it specifies that
it is of type SecurityContext,
if you annotated with an
@Context annotation
then the SecurityContexts will
be injected into that parameter.
You can also use that to
inject class-level
variables, not just methods.
So in that sense, context is multifaceted
annotation, is not just
used in method parameters,
it can also be used on fields
of your class.
You can also retrieve the URI info of
incoming requests using the context
annotation. Using JAX-RS in Quarkus,
in practice looks like this.
Our ExampleResource class is annotated
with the path example annotation,
which means that this is
the base path that this REST web
service will be listening on.
All the methods unless
otherwise specified,
except and return JSON
as the content type.
And then we have simple greet method here,
which is reacting to get requests to slash
example endpoint and
simply prints Hello friend.
And we have another GET method,
but this time with a path parameter.
So anything sent to slash
example slash something,
something will be taken and injected into
the name parameter of the method
because it is annotated with
the PathParam annotation
specifying that is
the name of the component
of the URL that we want,
that one too will react to get type request.
JSON is a great way of
representing structured data.
But of course, it needs to be correctly
transferred into Java objects if
we want to use it in Java code.
Traditional enterprise
Java use JSON-P for many,
many types of JSON manipulation.
Quarkus though uses JSON-P.
JSON-P specification defines an
API for processing JSON streams,
then transforming them into an object
model and attaching events to it.
Whereas JSON-B specification declares
a binding layer from the JSON
structure into your
Java POJOs, mapping
JSON values to Java object instances.
Among other things, Quarkus
also support
Jackson for JSON serialization
and deserialization.
If you want to use Jackson,
then in addition to adding
JSON-B and dependencies,
also add quarkus-resteasy-jackson or quarkus-jackson
extensions for support for that.
Now, binding a class for
serialization and
deserialization to and from
JSON requires you to first of all,
annotate your endpoint methods,
of course, which you're going
to use in the web service.
And then annotate the
service class or the method
itself with consumes and
produces annotations.
This automatically triggers an
attempt at serialization and
deserialization based on the method
parameters and return types.
Of course, whatever the method
parameter type and the return type are,
those 2 classes need to be sort
of the correct structure for
the JSON we're receiving
and of course, for returning,
it is much easier.
Serializing a Java object into JSON is
a fairly straightforward operation.
De-serializing it though
is a bit trickier and
that's something we're going
to look into a bit later.
If you want to return a Response
object instead of a POJO,
because you have to modify
one thing or another
about the HTTP server response,
set some headers, I don't know, whatever.
Then
in Native all mode Quarkus
will not be able to
identify the type of object
that needs to serialize.
And in that case, you
need to use register for
reflection annotation to indicate to Graal
VM that it needs to look into
the POJO that you're using and
enable serialization on it.
But that's only relevant again,
when you're using Quarkus Natives, so
we going to get back to that?
The JSON binding capabilities are
actually based on code introspection.
So for the most part you do not need
to provide any additional annotations.
But Quarkus does have to
be able to instantiate
the class and assign the
values for its fields.
And for that purpose,
the POJO that is being
manipulated by serialization and
deserialization must have a class
constructor that either has no-parameters,
constructor, so default,
constructor basically.
Or you need to annotate
the POJO constructor with
the @JsonbCreator annotation.
This is a special case when your
class does not have default values.
It need some sort of
initialization parameter,
even though JSON-B would if
inject it the correct values from JSON
into the class at a later point.
So you have to annotate the
constructor with @JsonbCreator.
But then parameter names must match
JSON property names or you must
use @JsonProperty to indicate
which JSON field should be used
in the constructor's parameters.
Also, attributes of the class
must be publicly available
for reading and writing
by either having class attributes
with publicaccess modifiers,
or having appropriate getter and setter
methods for each attribute used by JSON.
Quarkus cannot break any rules and
access restricted class members,
so you have to have some
way of setting the fields.
There are situations where
you do not want to serialize
a property of an object even though
it's there, such as for example,
age. Age might be in a customer,
might be a convenience property that you
calculate from the birth
date and current date.
So you do not really have to
store it and it does change,
whereas birth dates do not change.
So you can always recalculate
the customer's age.
So such views of objects can be annotated
with @JsonbTransient annotation.
And JSON-B will simply
ignore them. If you want to
ignore the annotation
for serialization only
but not deserialization,
there might be cases like that,
then just instead of annotating the field,
simply use @JsonbTransient
on the getter method.
If you want to ignore the property for
deserialization but include it
in serialized classes,
then just do the opposite.
Do not annotate the getter class,
but do annotate the setter one.
You can achieve much more
custom serialization properties
by defining a CDI bean of type io.quarkus.
jsonb.JsonConfigCustomizer,
or a bean of type javax.json.bind.JsonbConfig.
And then of course, CDI will automatically
instantiate an instance of that
class whenever it needs JSON-B
in use the configuration in those
classes for marshalling and unmarshalling.
The annotations that we've
been talking about just now,
are JSON-B specific if
you switch to Jackson as
your underlying JSON serialization,
deserialization, framework,
then you use @JsonIgnore or @JsonIgnoreProperties, annotations,
and fine-control serialization
properties by defining
a CDI bean of type io.quarkus.jackson.ObjectMapperCustomizer.
Now, let's bring all these 3 together,
CDI, JAX-RS and JSON-B.
We will have an ExampleData class
here that just has a name and an age.
Then we will have an ExampleSrvice,
which is an @ApplicationScoped
CDI bean that we can
inject into other classes
and manage by Quarkus DI.
It has simple create method that accepts
some example data as a
parameter and returns
a list containing that ExampleData.
So basically, it uses a field called
list that is initially an ArrayList
and every time we invoke
the create method,
whatever data we pass it
is added to the list.
So the final piece is the
REST implementation itself.
Naming convention essentially means
that example is the base name,
the service is the backend
business logic method
where work is being performed.
And ExampleResource is usually used
for RESTful web service classes,
or whenever you're implementing
the actual REST layer,
you use the base name plus resource.
Now, this ExampleResource web service is
going to, it has an injection point
defined where the ExampleService
implementation
of the application is called
bean is going to be injected.
The fact that the bean is
ApplicationScoped means that
no data ever added to the list is lost
until the application is shut down
obviously. It is registered
@ /example path and both
@consumes and @produces.
JSON as content type.
It has a single post
method that does not have
an additional endpoint subcontext,
so anything sent with a
post request to the
/example will be handed
over to the create method
in the ExampleResource implementation.
The ExampleData class is
deserialized from JSON,
so going back to the data structure,
it needs to have a name and
an age in the JSON body.
And the service method create is invoked,
returning the current contents
of the list of data as
they are at the moment.
Of course, you can
develop Quarkus code using
whatever integrated development
environment or editor you prefer to.
Some environments like CodeReady Studio,
which is essentially Eclipse with
JBoss integration plug-ins,
IntelliJ, Apache NetBeans,
Visual Studio Code.
Many of those will have plug-ins that
will make your experience developing
Quarkus applications more pleasurable.
We will be using VSCodium in this course,
which is a free and open source
IDE based on Visual Studio Code.
There is very little
difference between the 2,
except for the fact that VSCodium has
an open source license and some
code that disables telemetry,
that is usage reporting
and couple of other little
details related to that.
It's installed and configured
to work with Quarkus on
your workstation virtual machine
in the lab environment already.
VSCodium and Visual Studio Code
have a lot of plugins that allow
for Java application development and
particularly Quarkus integration.
Now the first start will ask
you what theme you want to
use and allow you
to perform some additional
configuration, initial configuration.
And then once you started
it for the first time,
the extensions menu on the
left-hand side will allow you
to search for and install
the extensions among
which Quarkus has a number
of additional supports
extensions, such as, for example,
Language Support for Camel, Quarkus
Dark Theme if you want
in Visual Studio Code,
and even example snippets.
The one that is required though is Quarkus
Tools for Visual Studio Code,
which you can either install from
the marketplace or from a
locally provided archive.
You can run and debug your
application within VSCodium
because of the Quarkus extension
and the way it integrates with Maven,
which is already pre-installed
on our system as well.
You can open any project by clicking
on File and selecting Open Folder.
Then simply browse to the
project location and click OK.
We've already done this ahead of time.
The first time you do it,
a lot of Maven dependencies are going
to be downloaded, so it may take
a couple of minutes before
the project becomes fully
responsive and functional.
Then once the project is open,
you will see it in the File Explorer.
You see all the files in
this project in here,
starting from pom.xml
but also the source code files and
the additional generated artifacts such
as a target subdirectory and so on.
There is also a Java projects perspective,
which you can use to
limit the display only to
the relevant Java related
artifacts or Java source code.
Any additional resources
in src/main/resources,
and of course, a view of Maven
Dependencies if you need
to manipulate them directly
from the project view.
Once the project has finished importing,
you can run and debug the application
from the Command Palette.
You can simply press Control
Shift P for the palette to open
or alternatively, you can click on
View and Command Palette as
the first item in the menu.
Then you can select Quarkus,
just start typing Quarkus
and there you go.
There's a Debug current Quarkus project,
which will start the Quarkus application in
development mode and connect
the ID 2 to the Quarkus runtime.
That means whatever changes you make in
the development environment will
automatically be reloaded by Quarkus.
I can show you a quick demo of that.
So at the bottom here we
have the Quarkus Terminal
as you can see it here.
It says it's greeting and tells us
that the Live Coding is activated.
Now, I can test this by simply
connecting to localhost port 8080.
If I just quickly review the source
code in the ExpenseResource,
the @Path is expenses,
and the @GET method without any parameters
will simply list all expenses.
So let's do that.
There they are.
Now, if I want to change
something about this method,
let's say register it
under a different path,
I can add a new annotation like this.
And as I save the file,
you will see that upon my next request
it will be automatically reloaded.
So now I'm no longer going
to get a response at
/expenses because the file
was reloaded and the new @Path
was immediately activated.
It says here Hot replace total time was 0.621s.
Of course now I have to add the list and
point to get the same functionality back.
Is the simple, quick example
of how live reloading makes it
really easy to test applications.
You can add break points to your code by
clicking on the red dot
that appears if you hover to
the left of the line number
as you can see here, if you click it in,
and a Breakpoint is added.
If you click it again, it is removed.
Of course that means when you're running
your application in development mode,
if you send the request that
activates the line where
you've marked a Breakpoint,
the execution will stop
and the IDE will show you,
will prompt you for attention
and we will show you the view of
the variables of all the values.
And you will be able to use the toolbar
at the top here to step over the code,
step into it, step out of it as any
normal debugger would allow you to do.
Let's move on with our very first exercise,
where we develop a RESTful Microservice
and practice using the tools and
methods that we have just discussed.
See you in the next video.